- [Instructor] Now let's take a look at the JSP Directives.
JSP Directives are special instructions
that are provided to the container software
for the translation process.
We know by now that the container is responsible
for converting that JSP into a servlet file,
and whilst this conversion takes place,
directives are those components inside your JSP page
which will relay those instructions to the container
for the translation process
and definitely it is going to change
how the compilation process also happens.
Directives themselves will never appear
as a part of the output.
They do not produce any output.
They're just supposed to be relaying messages
to the container.
So what are the kinds of jobs that JSP Directives
can do for us?
It could import classes for the code
that you're writing on the JSP.
So let's say you're using a lot of classes on the JSP code.
In Java the rule is that if you're using a class
you need to import it.
So that's what the directive does for us.
If you are using a class on JSP
it will import that class for you using the page directive.
Then it also allows you to devise error pages
for the application.
Let's say for example we have 10 screens in our application,
one of the screens is right now functional
and something goes wrong on it.
If something goes wrong,
you will really not want to show the exception stack trace
to the end customer,
because the customer wouldn't
be able to make any meaning out of it.
So instead it would be better to drive the user
or the customer to an error page
and show a beautifully displayed error message
asking the user to try the website at a later point in time.
So that facility can be devised
with the help of JSP directives.
It also helps you to include JSP resources dynamically
into the current page.
So let's see what are the types of JSP Directives
that we have.
There are in total of three directives,
page, include, and taglib.
The first one among them is the page directive.
It looks like this.
So there's an angle bracket, a percentage sign,
and the directive is going to be denoted
by at (mumbles) sign.
Followed by that we have the name of the directive.
In this case, it's going to be page.
And if you want to close it you close it
using the percentage and angle bracket in the reverse order.
So that's the page directive.
Now all the information that you want to feed
to the page directive is always in the form of attributes.
So basically a directive looks like
an element on a JSP page,
and the extra information that you need to feed
is in the form of attributes.
All right, what all does the page directive do?
It imports classes,
helps configure error pages,
helps you to set up the session for the JSP,
asks you to even set a character encoding for the page.
So we're going to go to our Eclipse
and quickly take a look at the attributes
that are available on the page directive.
The page directive is usually written
at the top of every page
because it is going to define a lot of attributes
for that entire page.
Now if you see, the page directive was already generated
four times from line number two to five
on the searchResults.jsp.
That happened because, let's come down,
when I wrote the scriptlet code
starting on line number 63 to 68,
I needed to import the list interface,
the ArrayList class, the iterator interface,
the product bean, etc.
So all those imports have been automatically placed there
at the top of the page using the page directive.
Please note the import attribute is the only one
which can be used with the page directive
multiple number of times.
Every other attribute that you use with page
can be used only once.
All right, so let's take a look at the other attributes.
Buffer.
Buffer is going to denote the capacity in KBs,
and that's basically the output that the JSP can handle
when it tries to display something on the page.
Of course you can set this to a greater value,
but it's by default always set to 8kb.
Let's go to the next attribute.
Content type.
If you want to set a content type for this page,
as in what characters are going to get
displayed on this page
and is there a character encoding format.
All of this information can be set as
the content type attribute on the page directive.
Let's look at another one.
Extends.
Now we know that whenever the JSP gets translated,
the parent that is written out
in the translation process is HttpJspBase;
however, if you want to change the parent class for this JSP
you can do that via the extends attribute.
Please note that nobody really uses this attribute,
because if you do then you'll have to
own up the responsibility of writing
all the parent class code for this translated JSP.
Let's look at another attribute,
isELIgnored.
IsELignored?
EL is expression language.
And when I say isELIgnored,
it is trying to indicate whether you really want to
ignore expression language for this JSP.
We rarely do this because we always want
expression language to work for our JSP.
Do not worry too much about what expression language is
because we are going to see that
in the later part of this course.
Then let's talk about isThreadSafe.
IsThreadSage is set to true by default,
and it means that your JSP can handle concurrent requests.
If you set this to false it means a request
will be handled one at a time,
which is not a very good thing to do
because it'll pull down the performance of your application.
So when you say isThreadSafe equal to true,
then you may have to synchronize that block of code
which has a risk of accessing the shared resources.
Now let's take a look at the couple of attributes
which are going to help you devise
error pages for the application.
The first one among them is errorPage.
What this means is,
that if anything goes wrong on the searchResults.jsp file,
then I'm going to direct the user to an error page.
So let's do one thing first.
Let's go to our HTML and create an error page.
So I'm going to say new, JSP file,
and let's label this as error.jsp.
Once we do this,
we're going to have a beautiful error message here,
saying sorry,
some error occurred,
please try again later.
Let's add a bit of paragraph element
instead of an h3 element.
Okay.
Right, so this is the error page for our application.
Now let's go back to searchResults.jsp
and on line number five,
when I had embedded the error page attribute,
I mean that if anything goes wrong on searchResults.jsp
that I need to go to the error.jsp
to show the error message.
So I'm going to give the relative part
of that error.jsp right out here.
That's all.
The other attribute that you need
to mention in terms of error pages configuration,
is this one,
isErrorPage.
So this signifies whether the searchResults.jsp
is the error page of your application,
which is not.
That's why we are setting isErrorPage is false.
So what we need to do is we need to go in the error.jsp
and there when you have the page directive,
to that you need to say isErrorPage,
this will be set to true.
That's right, error.jsp
is the error page for my application,
and that is exactly what I'm trying
to define by this attribute.
In all the other pages of your application,
this attribute will be set to false
the way we did it on the searchResults.jsp.
So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to deliberately
do a mistake on this JSP so that something goes wrong,
and then we'll check out the flow.
So I'm going to do this mistake here.
Let me go to line number 64
and let me change the name of this key itself
so it is never going to find it,
and I'm going to get a NullPointerException at this line.
A NullPointerException is basically a problem.
So when that error occurs,
I should be directed to that error.jsp, right?
So let's deploy these changes and check our flow.
Let's click on the search hyperlink,
enter a search criteria.
So there you go.
You get the error message displayed,
sorry, some error occurred,
because something went wrong on the searchResults.jsp.
So this is a mechanism of doing a graceful exit
out of the application in case anything goes wrong
in any of your pages.
It's way better than showing the stack trace to the user
because that's really an embarrassing situation.